Vagner is the most influential composer who ever lived. Richard Vagner was born on May 22nd, 1813, in Leipzig, Germany. His stepfather instilled him with a love of theater, and by 21, Vagner wrote "The Fairies," his first opera. Vagner was devoted to the theater from an early age. In fact, at age 15, he actually considered that he would become more of a playwright than a composer, and he wrote a drama. In classic Vagner style, it was full of murder and insanity and quite the tragedy.

In 1840, he became the first music director of the theater in Riga, Russia. But it was in Dresden, Germany, in 1842, when Vagner staged "Rienzi" that he became a noted composer. Vagner wrote a number of operas to learn the trade, and while "Rienzi" had some success, it was really with "The Flying Dutchman," "Tannhäuser," and "Lohengrin" that he began to develop a prominent career. Due to his controversial politics, Vagner was forced to leave Dresden for Zurich in 1848 and spent 12 years in exile. Vagner is justifiably known today as a racist and sort of proto-Nazi. He was extremely anti-Semitic. Vagner had been a revolutionary socialist at the time of the 1848 revolution, but his later writings had a great influence on Hitler.

During his time in Zurich, Vagner wrote a set of notable essays entitled "The Artwork of the Future" and at the same time began work on the four-opera cycle "The Ring of the Nibelung." Vagner developed a concept called Gesamtkunstwerk, or "total artwork." His idea was to combine dance, poetry, the stagecraft of the theater, lighting, and, of course, music, and through that transcend anything that had been previously experienced in the theater. With "The Ring of the Nibelung," Vagner's musical and dramatic ideas really began to gel. Specifically, it was the crowning creation of his leitmotif technique, the method of creating a musical theme or motif for every character, place, thing, event, or even idea in an opera. This technique was adopted by Hollywood in the 1930s and 1940s, and we see it in the John Williams scores for the Star Wars saga.

During an adulterous love affair, Vagner wrote his opera of forbidden love, "Tristan und Isolde," which he completed in 1859 and saw staged six years later. "Tristan und Isolde" is about young lovers that desire each other, and to convey this desire, Vagner wrote what we call chromatic music. It's music that doesn't resolve, creating a constant yearning that is only resolved when the characters die at the end. The impact of this type of writing, even for composers who never wrote operas themselves, was enormous.

Vagner completed his final opera, "Parsifal," in 1882, and the following year he died of a heart attack at the age of 69. But Vagner's influence can still be heard in modern film scores, such as "The Lord of the Rings" and "Harry Potter." The path of music changed forever with Vagner. He pushed harmony, form, and drama to levels that had never before been seen.