Here, hey Evelyn, how are you doing? Great!

I'm very excited, Rachel. Me too, Evelyn.

It's so nice to meet you. Let me introduce myself. I'm Rachel. I'm an enterprise product lead at an AI startup called Arena. We help large enterprises make decisions using AI models. Before I was at Arena, I was a staff product manager at Meta, where I was building or collaborating with teams to build recommendation systems, personalization systems, and content distribution systems. So, that's roughly about me in a nutshell. Why don't you tell me a bit about yourself?

Yeah, thank you so much, Rachel. My name is Evelyn. Most recently, I was at Coursera, building platform features. Prior to that, I worked at various different companies including Uber. So, I would say my expertise is really in marketplace and growth. Right now, I'm actively interviewing, and I'm super excited that I get this opportunity to get your coaching.

Oh, wonderful! I am a huge fan of Coursera. I have taken a few classes there, and it's a wonderful platform.

Evelyn, let's imagine that you are a product manager at Meta, and you have six months to evaluate if Meta should enter the fitness space.

Got it. So, what we are trying to figure out is whether or not Meta should enter the fitness space. Great! I guess to start, I'd love to just clarify a few things with you. When we say "enter the fitness space," are we thinking about potentially leveraging some of the Meta portfolio, or is this a brand new space that we are trying to get into?

So, ideally, if we have six months, I think it's best to use Meta's portfolio and leverage our existing features to see if there is value here. How do you think this aligns with Meta's direction overall? What do you see as opportunities here before we dive too deep? Yeah, I think to tie back to Meta's vision, which is to give people a space so that they could build communities and bring the whole world closer together, I think the fitness space makes a lot of sense. Because how people spend time these days is very fragmented. Meta started off as a social media network, Facebook. I think nowadays people probably spend less time on it because there are so many competitors like TikTok, Google, YouTube. So, I think fitness could be very strategic because people are spending more time on fitness. They probably spend more than five to ten minutes working out than a couple of seconds or a minute watching social media bits. So, I think strategically it makes a lot of sense from an engagement perspective.

And outside of the engagement, what do you think about the sentiment towards fitness or building a community around fitness? Do you see examples where communities are being built around fitness?

Absolutely, absolutely. Community is, if not the most important, one of the most important levers because people find more motivation and interest when they have a lot of people they could work with. And I think that's one of the powers of the Facebook or Meta community. There are already so many monthly and weekly active users, so I think the community piece is probably easy to get.

Okay, sounds good. So, I guess we touched a little bit about the engagement. I wanted to use that as a guiding principle. In order for me to build this fitness product utilizing the existing Facebook or Meta portfolio, I'm going to keep the engagement in mind. Then I will move on to how I usually structure the product sense. I love to brainstorm on who we are building this for, what their motivations or pain points are, and then from there, I think I could pitch a few solutions with you. And then from there, probably figure out metrics, how to measure success, and then what the end-to-end experience looks like. How does that sound to you?

That sounds wonderful, thank you.

Awesome. So, to start with, who are we building this for? I think of fitness as a two-sided marketplace. On one hand, there are the people who provide content, so like supply the content for fitness. They might be coaches or influencers. And then on the other hand, there is the demand side, which are the audience who consume the fitness information. When I think about supply and demand, there are definitely more influencers trying to enter the space, but in terms of the market size, I still think there are more people consuming the information so they could become more fit or healthier. So, I think the demand is where I want to focus on.

Okay, so breaking that down a little bit more, when I think about the demand side, there are also individual fitness levels. There might be people who work out on a daily basis. I would consider them athletes. And then there are people who are just maybe casually working out maybe one or two times a week. And then there are people who either don't have a habit or they just don't work out. When I think about the fitness level and where I might have the most success, I think about how big the audience is, how much impact the fitness product could drive, and then how much effort, because we are trying to build this thing out in six months. I think the casual workout people have the highest reach. If I build something that they use, it probably will have medium to large impact. In terms of confidence, Meta has so much data I could tap into, so I think confidence-wise I can definitely validate it. How does that sound to you?

Wonderful. I really like it, and I really like that you're giving me a bit of a double segmentation here, orienting me around what is the marketplace at a high level, then going down deeper, and then giving me a very good prioritization method, so I understand what's guiding your selection. This is very helpful.

Thank you so much. So, shall we move on to maybe focusing on the demand side, casual workout? I want to think about their pain points. Okay, so the pain points. I consider myself a casual workout person. I don't do it every day. A couple of pain points come to mind. One is the schedule. A lot of professionals, like working professionals, have a busy schedule, so working out might not be something that's already in their daily routine. That's one. The other one I think is related to equipment. Working out could be many different things, but some require a punching bag or a treadmill. Not everyone has access to that. And I think the third one is a combination of different things, but I think the summary is motivation. People might not find enough motivation to get up in the morning to work out, or they could get bored and then just drop out. So, I think motivation is a summary of the pain points that a lot of casual workout people might face when they are trying to decide what to do. I'm going to pause right there just to get your reaction. How do these pain points resonate with you? Is there any direction you want me to focus a little bit more on?

First of all, thank you for checking in with me. I think these all make sense. Where do you think understanding what to do and knowing what to do fits in here?

I think to help me figure out what to do here, I would probably leverage a couple of things. The first...

No, no, I didn't explain myself well, I'm sorry. I meant when you're thinking about the casual worker, how do you think access to information influences their ability to become more fit or to meet their goals?

I think it's relevant to what they are looking for, and I think Meta might have the network they can tap into to look for the information. Like, maybe they can look up what their friends are doing, or they could look up to what their coaches are recommending. So, I think the social graph, which Meta is known for, is fine-tuning that connection and the information shared among these people. So, I definitely think information plays a huge part, especially in terms of how these casual workout people could get help.

Cool. When you're comparing information and motivation as two problems, how do you think about which of these is more important to prioritize? How do you go about that?

I think they are interrelated. A lot of people lack motivation because they don't know where to look. It's daunting. It is daunting. And a lot of people probably feel that about Meta too. Meta has been around for at least ten plus years, and over time, Meta has so many products. With each product, there's different pieces of information. So, for casual workout folks, the information might be daunting, so they don't necessarily know where to look for that help. That's why I think fitness is interesting, and definitely, there's already a lot of portfolio within Meta that could be built around driving wellness and health for the users.

When you're thinking about these problems, how would you validate which of these problems is the most pressing?

In terms of validation, Meta has a lot of data. I definitely want to tap into that. I also would argue there's information outside of Meta, like trends or market maps or even with post-COVID how people's health habits evolved. I think there's a lot of first and third-party quantitative and qualitative studies I could look into to see if that validates my hypothesis that information overload could be one of the hindrances that prevent people from working out.

So, it's interesting you're saying there's both that aspect of too much information and not enough information at the same time, which makes it very daunting to users, as you said a second ago.

Yeah, the right information. Having information is not enough. It has to be, I think, the right place, right time, and the right information in general.

Wonderful. Okay, so I think how I might prioritize these pain points, and thank you for guiding me to think more about the information versus like which specific pain points might be most related to Meta's mission and strength, which is a sea of data, a sea of information. I would say information plays a huge part in terms of driving people's motivation. We talked about schedule, we talked about equipment, but I think motivation has that Venn diagram with the information that Meta already has. So, I think that is the pain point that we can probably build something quickly to address.

That makes a lot of sense. I know we touched about this before, but do you think there are opportunities here, in terms of the pain points, in terms of motivation? Do you think that there's an opportunity, or let me rephrase this, how do you think this might impact the emotional connection that people using Meta have with Meta?

I think the emotional connection could be elevated, and I think that could strengthen the engagement. Most Meta users or Facebook or Instagram or WhatsApp users use the product for very specific purposes, like browsing people's activities. If we are able to unlock the motivation by providing the right information at the right time, I think the emotional connection could be boosted because not only their activity is just around possibly browsing people's feed or images, but it's also about having a shared experience. And I think fitness is a shared experience that could motivate other people. So, emotional connection, I definitely see it trending upwards with the fitness angle. I love that you bring up the shared experiences of it because I think it really ties to Meta's mission very nicely.

Yeah, like when I see a friend working out and building a six-pack, I want to do that too. It's the season of New Year resolutions, one person influencing another, and we all get six-packs, right?

Yes, exactly. Okay, what do you want to do next?

Okay, tying back to the solution that could solve for that motivation and boost emotional connection using what we already have in the Meta portfolio, I think there are a couple of low-hanging fruit ideas that I had. One is around reminders. Like we touched on, there is so much information, there are so many notifications going on, but I think related to fitness, if we could serve some sort of front and center popup at the time someone needs to work out, that could be a really good habit formation to motivate people. It's time to work out. I think tying back to the connection piece, another idea could be forming some sort of social workout group. If I know I live in Washington DC, there are people in the same area, similar age, all interested in developing some sort of healthy habit, we could form a group and start working out. I think that goes back to the emotional connection. Like, I'm no longer working alone, I am working out with other people. So, I think that kind of motivation could be double or quadruple. The third idea that I had is probably related to the personalization and motivation aspect. I think because Meta is investing heavily in the AR/VR space, with the information and the social graph, it is possible to build out some sort of personalized experience that can be experienced through AR/VR platforms. Maybe when I put the headset on, it's knowing my brain waves or my heartbeat and then suggests the best kind of workout at the moment. So, in terms of these three ideas...

Before you go into prioritization, I have a few questions for you. I love your ideas. When you're thinking about, for example, that front and center notification that you mentioned and thinking about that social workout group, are there opportunities to connect these together? Maybe you don't need to schedule in advance. Do you see any opportunity here to bring these together a bit?

Absolutely. I think they are leveraging the part about personalized preference, and I think Meta is really good at that. As part of either the onboarding or activation flow, Meta could also ask how people want to work out. Do they like to work out by themselves or do they like to work out among other people? So, I think those two pieces can definitely connect—the notification and the social group aspect.

So, let's say, let me play this out for you a bit. Let's say I know that you, Evelyn, like to work out in a group, and let's say I know that your friend Lisa is just about to go on a run in 15 minutes. How does this connect for you?

Yeah, I love that. If I see Lisa is going out for a run and I'm just having a sluggish day, and I get a notification saying, "Hey, your friend is going for a run, would you like to join her?" To me, that kind of emotional booster that we talked about is probably going to help me get out of my sluggish day and then just put on my shoes and join Lisa. So, I think those two definitely could be a sequence, one leading to another.

On the flip side of it, what do you think is the biggest risk of this approach, like letting you know that Lisa is going on a run?

I think personalized data being shared could be one of the risks. I know in the past there have been a lot of concerns and guardrails around which data people feel comfortable sharing. What if Lisa wants to go for a run, and then all of a sudden, I run down the street, and she doesn't even want to see me? I think that will ruin Lisa's experience a little bit.

Hopefully, it doesn't ruin her experience, but yeah, it might make her question it, and it might be a bit more dangerous than that as well.

Yeah, the creepiness is for sure.

When you're thinking about this idea of motivating people to let each other know about their workouts and making this a social experience, and then thinking about the VR/AR piece, let's say it's a snowstorm outside in Boston, and you still have electricity, but you're definitely not going to the gym and there's no way you're going running. How do you think you can tie these things together?

Yeah, I love that example because it happened to me last week. It was snowing really hard outside, and I would love to go out. I think in that case, the AR/VR makes a lot of sense because it solves the motivation caused by external factors. If I have a headset, and if I could build that in as part of like, "Hey, it's six o'clock, time to get up and work out," there's no excuse for not going outside because I have a headset I could put on, and then the headset could recommend something that helps me work out and stay healthy.

How would you tie the social network element here or the community piece here?

Yeah, something I could see is building into the social element. The moment I put my headset on, it's detecting that Evelyn is online and also simultaneously seeing who else might also be online, and then all of a sudden, maybe I am running down the virtual track with Lisa or Luke or whoever. I think that's where things could come together.

Wonderful. So, we have brainstormed a few solutions, some of them you brought yourself, and some of them we kind of brainstormed a bit together. Thank you for collaborating with me on this. What do you think is the most impactful solution here?

In terms of impactful solutions, I want to think about personalized experiences. If a person is a solo workout person, then I would say probably the reminder is a low-hanging fruit. I feel confident to build this out within the time constraint of six months and then get it out and validate what kind of impact it has.

If you see that it has the impact that you're looking for, what direction would you want to go into more?

Direction number one, I would try to bundle other elements. If the reminder works great, then I probably would see if there are other social elements I could tie into, like the social group or forming some sort of friendly competition with other friends. So, at the same time, everybody gets that kind of reminder to work out. Those are a couple of ideas that could be bundled after early success of the impact.

Interesting. Last question, this usually isn't part of what I ask in these interviews, but I'm a bit curious. How would you think about bringing this to market? What would you try to do in terms of a go-to-market plan to start this? If you're running a test, for example, are you trying to promote this test? How are you thinking about that?

Yeah, that's a great question. I think maybe March is the wellness awareness month. I think that could be... maybe it's March, maybe it's April, I'm not sure, but there is a month called wellness awareness month.

I did not know that. Thank you for telling me. That's very creative.

I think that could be an opportunity for go-to-market. What Meta could do is leverage this kind of opportunity to make a splash. When you log on to Facebook or Instagram, now you can put in some sort of personalized request if you want to be more active. Using the social graph and the information we already have about you, not leaving you alone on the way to set healthy habits, to motivate you to... I don't know, for me, it's losing 10 pounds or something like that. Rest assured, Meta has a lot of data that throughout the workout journey, that could be a good value proposition and a PR opportunity as a go-to-market.

You bring up a really interesting point there, bringing the idea of weight loss. Meta has received a lot of scrutiny over teenage girls and body image issues. How do you handle that with this kind of experience? You know, when people often tie fitness to weight loss, and that doesn’t necessarily play out well, especially for teenagers. How do you ensure safety here?

I love this question. How I would tackle it goes back to our earlier point about emotional connection. A lot of people over-index on fitness or losing weight because they don’t have a good threshold to measure what is healthy. There’s a lot of false information on social media. I think what Meta could do is leverage people beyond their immediate network. A lot of teenagers see other teenagers losing weight, so they want to follow suit. But what Meta could do is bring in more trusted and authoritative voices to influence them on what health could mean, whether that’s BMI or whatever. There are multiple different ways, especially with the feed. Meta could introduce that to build a healthy balance and boundaries for those who over-index on weight loss.

Cool. I think that's a very good place to end because I think it’s something really important to think about—how do you make sure this is a safe experience that doesn’t cause more harm than good. So, thanks for thinking through this with me.

Okay, let’s do a quick debrief. Evelyn, how do you think this felt or how do you think this went?

I had a lot of fun, and I think that’s the essence of product sense, right? It doesn’t feel like you asked me a question and I have to go through the circle framework or whatever or use the RICE framework. It felt like a collaborative brainstorming process, which I really like. I think I got a little bit sidetracked in terms of connecting all the pieces together. On one hand, we’re talking about emotional connection, and then there’s the information overload. Going back to Meta’s portfolio, there are so many things I need to consider. So, I think that’s probably one of the pieces of feedback I would give myself—to really clarify which existing portfolio ties back to the pain points and user pain points, and then how does that drive the overall outcome that we wanted to achieve, whether that’s daily, weekly, or whatever active users.

Wonderful. From my point of view, I think I really liked the collaborative aspect of this as well. People go into these product sense interviews and they think, “Oh, I need to know everything and I need to lead the interview.” But the fact is, it’s very collaborative, in my opinion. One of the key things that are evaluated is how coachable you are, how you respond to the interviewer’s nudges, and I really liked how you responded to the nudges that I gave you. If I’m thinking about what are the five things that you get evaluated on in a product sense interview... actually, before I go there, in my opinion, a product sense interview is about taking an ambiguous problem statement and turning it into an actionable hypothesis or solution or product vision, right? I think you accomplished a lot of this here. You were able to tie this to Meta’s mission and think about... and when I pushed you on it, you were able to iterate with me a bit to get to understanding not just the metrics, but what does it mean for the emotional connection, what does it mean for the social network, being able to build community through fitness, right? The second piece, audience definition, I really liked that you took me through a top-down approach of showing me the market, the overall ecosystem, and then prioritizing a specific set of users with a framework I could follow. Problem identification, I think it was really cool to see how we iterated a bit with each other, trying to clarify a bit more of how you’re thinking about two different problems and then kind of nailing down the problem that you want to solve. And then the solution exploration, I think you had really great ideas. The one thing I would say there is I would want to see the social network piece, not just the social graph, but the social network and the mission guide a bit more through the solution space. Which is fine, it’s something that’s hard to come up with. As you said yourself, there’s a bit of a risk here because, for example, for your notification framework, if Lisa doesn’t want other people to know that Lisa is working out, then we probably shouldn’t do that. But I think also the idea of who’s online when your headset is on gives me a longer-term vision. Meaning, okay, you start with a notification, and then you think about building out the VR headset, which ties up very nicely with the six months horizon. It was pretty easy to follow you. I think at some points you may have been a bit nervous, which is very natural in these cases. Nobody is perfect in communicating point by point unless they pretty much wrote down the solution step by step, word by word. It’s not realistic to think about. And I did throw a wrench at you. I actually threw two wrenches at you in the end. The first one was how you take it to market, which usually we don’t have time for these questions, but I loved your idea of the fitness awareness month as a moment here. So, I thought that was super fun, and I thought the conversation about how you think about safety and teen safety in terms of this problem is really important to solve. So, overall, I had a lot of fun with you, and I hope you enjoyed this as well.

Thank you, I did, thank you.

Wonderful.